Add Type System (I) (#53244)
pytorch/pytorch: docs/source/jit_type_system_1.rst

.. _type_system:

Type System (I): TorchScript Types
==================================

This section summarizes TorchScript type system. The information is based on TorchScript language reference
and reading the implementation.

Terminology
^^^^^^^^^^^

This document uses the following terminologies:

::

    " " represents real keywords and delimiters that are part of the syntax
    A | B indicates either A or B
    ( ) indicates grouping
    [ ] indicates optional
    A+ indicates a regular expression where term A is repeated at least once
    A* indicates a regular expression where term A is repeated zero or more times

TorchScript Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The TorchScript type system consists of ``TSType`` and ``TSModuleType`` as defined below.

::

    TSAllType := TSType | TSModuleType
    TSType := TSMetaType | TSPrimitiveType | TSStructuralType | TSNominalType

``TSType`` represents the majority of TorchScript types, that are composable and can be used in TorchScript type annotation.
``TSType`` can be further classified into:

    * meta types, e.g., Any
    * primitive types, e.g., int, float, str
    * structural types, e.g., Optional[int] or List[MyClass]

>     * nominal types (Python classes), e.g., MyClass (user-defined), torch.tensor (builtin)

Reviewer: `torch.Tensor` is not a nominal type I think.

Author: Hmmm, so just categorize it in builtin types?

> ``TSModuleType`` represents torch.nn.Module and its  subclasses. It is treated differently from ``TSType`` because its type schema is partly inferred partly from the object instance and partly from the class definition.

Reviewer: Unnecessary double space between "its" and "subclasses"

Author: Done

Author: Done

> ``TSModuleType`` represents torch.nn.Module and its  subclasses. It is treated differently from ``TSType`` because its type schema is partly inferred partly from the object instance and partly from the class definition.

Reviewer: s/partly inferred partly/inferred partly/

Author: Done

As such, instances of a ``TSModuleType`` may not follow the same static type schema. ``TSModuleType`` cannot be used in TorchScript type annotation or be composed with TSType for type safety considerations.

Meta Types
^^^^^^^^^^

Meta types are so abstract that they are more like type constraints than concrete types.
Currently TorchScript defines one meta-type, ``Any``, that represents any TorchScript type.

> Any Type

Reviewer: s/Any/``Any``

Author: Done

""""""""

The ``Any`` type literally represents any type. ``Any`` specifies no type constraints, thus there is no type checking on ``Any``.

> As such t can be bound to any Python or TorchScript data types (e.g., int, TorchScript tuple, or an arbitrary Python class that is not scripted).

Reviewer: s/such t can/such it can/

Author: Done

::

    TSMetaType := "Any"

where

    * ``Any`` is the Python class name from the typing module, therefore usage of the ``Any`` type requires from typing import Any
    * Since Any can represent any data, operators allowed on Any is quite limited

Operators supported for Any type
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

    * assignment to data of Any type
    * binding to parameter or return of Any type

>     * x is  , x is not  where x is of Any type

Reviewer: unnecessary spaces in this line

Author: Done

    * isinstance(x, Type) where x is of Any type
    * data of Any type is printable
    * Data of List[Any] type may be sortable if the data is a list of values of the same type T and that T supports comparison operators

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

``Any`` is the least constrained type in the TorchScript type system. In that sense, it is quite similar to
Object class in Python. However, ``Any`` only supports a subset of the operators and methods that are supported by Object.

Design notes
""""""""""""

> When we script a PyTorch module, we may encounter data that are not involved in the execution of the script, nevertheless have to be described

Reviewer: s/have to be/has to be

Author: Done

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

Apart from only composable with TorchScript types, these TorchScript structural types often support a common subset of
the operators and methods of its Python counterparts.

Example:

This example uses typing.NamedTuple syntax:

.. testcode::

    import torch
    from typing import NamedTuple
    from typing import Tuple

    class MyTuple(NamedTuple):
        first: int
        second: int

    def inc(x: MyTuple) -> Tuple[int, int]:
        return (x.first+1, x.second+1)

    t = MyTuple(first=1, second=2)
    scripted_inc = torch.jit.script(inc)
    print("TorchScript:", scripted_inc(t))

This example uses ``collections.namedtuple`` syntax:

.. testcode::

    import torch
    from typing import NamedTuple
    from typing import Tuple
    from collections import namedtuple

    _AnnotatedNamedTuple = NamedTuple('_NamedTupleAnnotated', [('first', int), ('second', int)])
    _UnannotatedNamedTuple = namedtuple('_NamedTupleAnnotated', ['first', 'second'])

    def inc(x: _AnnotatedNamedTuple) -> Tuple[int, int]:
        return (x.first+1, x.second+1)

    m = torch.jit.script(inc)
    print(inc(_UnannotatedNamedTuple(1,2)))

Example:

> This example illustrates a common mistake of annotating structural types, i.e., not importing the composite type

Reviewer: IMHO, this example doesn't quite fit here, this is part of spec of TorchScript. Rather, Python 3 dictates Tuple annotation is imported and used this way.

Author: I am not sure where else this information should be added. I can probably add saying that it's Python 3  requirement?

Reviewer: Just thought more about it, we can keep it here, I am fairly sure someone will find it useful.

classes from the typing module.

.. testcode::

    import torch

    # ERROR: Tuple not recognized because not imported from typing
    @torch.jit.export
    def inc(x: Tuple[int, int]):
    return (x[0]+1, x[1]+1)

    m = torch.jit.script(inc)
    print(inc((1,2)))

> Running the above codes yield the following scripting error. The remedy is to add from typing import Tuple.

Reviewer: s/yield/yields

Author: Done

> Running the above codes yield the following scripting error. The remedy is to add from typing import Tuple.

Reviewer: Use code formatting around "from typing import Tuple"

Author: Done

::

    TSNominalType := TSBuiltinClasses | TSCustomClass | TSEnum

Among them, TSCustomClass and TSEnum must be compilable to TorchScript IR (as enforced by the type-checker).

Builtin Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Builtin nominal types are Python classes whose semantics are built into the TorchScript system, such as tensor types.
TorchScript defines the semantics of these builtin nominal types, and often support only a subset of the methods or
attributes of its Python class definition.

::

    TSBuiltinClass := TSTensor | "torch.device" | "torch.Stream" | "torch.dtype" |
                    "torch.nn.ModuleList" | "torch.nn.ModuleDict" | ...
    TSTensor := "torch.Tensor" | "common.SubTensor" | "common.SubWithTorchFunction" |
                "torch.nn.parameter.Parameter" | and subclasses of torch.Tensor

Special note on torch.nn.ModuleList and torch.nn.ModuleDict
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Although torch.nn.ModuleList and torch.nn.ModuleDict are defined as a list and dictionary in Python,
in TorchScript, ``torch.nn.ModuleList`` and ``torch.nn.ModuleDict`` behave more like a tuple.

>     * Within the execution of TorchScript, instances of torch.nn.ModuleList  or torch.nn.ModuleDict is immutable.

Reviewer: s/is immutable/are immutable/

Author: Done

>     * Iterating over torch.nn.ModuleList or torch.nn.ModuleDict is completely unrolled so that elements of torch.nn.ModuleList or keys of torch.nn.ModuleDict can be of different subclasses of torch.nn.Module.

Reviewer: code format class names in this paragraph

Author: Done

Example:

.. testcode::

    import torch

    @torch.jit.script
    class A():
        def __init__(self):
            self.x = torch.rand(3)

        def f(self, y: torch.device):
            return self.x.to(device=y)

    def g():
        a = A()
        return a.f(torch.device("cpu"))

    script_g = torch.jit.script(g)
    print(script_g.graph)

Custom Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Unlike built-in classes, semantics of custom classes are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable into TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.

Reviewer: Do we want to mention `torch.jit.ignore` and `torch.jit.unused` here? they can be used to side-step the requirement of having to fully script all methods.

Author: Yeah, I think that makes sense to include.

::

>     TSClassDef := [ "@torch.jit.script" ]

Reviewer: If we want to include `torch.jit.ignore` and `torch.jit.unused` then this definition needs to be updated as well.

Author: Fixed

Author: Fixed

                "class" ClassName [ "(object)" ]  ":"
                        MethodDefinition

where

>     * Classes must be new-style classes (note that Python 3 supports only new-style classes, for Python 2.x new-style class is specified by subclassing from object)

Reviewer: PyTorch no longer supports Python 2, so not sure if this statement is still relevant.

Author: I agree.

    * Instance data attributes are statically typed, and instance attributes must be declared by assignments inside
        the __init__() method

>     * Method overloading is not supported (i.e., cannot have multiple methods with the same method name)

Reviewer: Note: 
This is going to be changed very soon CC @tugsbayasgalan

    * MethodDefinition must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript’s type-checking rules, i.e., all methods must be valid TorchScript functions and class attribute definitions are valid TorchScript statements

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

TorchScript custom class is quite limited compared to its Python counterpart. Most notably, TorchScript custom classes

    * do not support class attributes
    * do not support subclassing except for subclassing an interface type or object
    * do not support method overloading
    * must initialize all its instance attributes in  __init__(); this is because TorchScript construct a static schema of the class by inferring attribute types in __init__()
    * must contain only methods that satisfy TorchScript type-checking rules and are compilable to TorchScript IRs

Example:

Python classes can be used in TorchScript if they are annotated with @torch.jit.script, similar to how you would declare a TorchScript function:

.. testcode::

    @torch.jit.script
    class MyClass:
        def __init__(self, x: int):
            self.x = x

        def inc(self, val: int):
            self.x += val

Example:

> A TorchScript custom class type must "declare" all its instance attributes by assignments in __init__(). If  an instance attribute is not defined in __init__() but accessed in other methods of the class, the class cannot be compiled as a TorchScript class, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: Double spaces between "If" and "and"

Author: Done

    class MyClass(object):
        name = "MyClass"
        def __init__(self, x: int):
            self.x = x

    def fn(a: MyClass):
        return a.name

It leads to the following compile-time error:

.. testoutput::

    RuntimeError:
    Tried to access nonexistent attribute or method 'name' of type '__torch__.MyClass'. Did you forget to initialize an attribute in __init__()?:
        File "test-class2.py", line 10
    def fn(a: MyClass):
        return a.name
            ~~~~~~ <--- HERE

Enum Type
^^^^^^^^^^

Like custom classes, semantics of enum type are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.

::

    TSEnumDef := "class" Identifier "(enum.Enum | TSEnumType)" ":"
                ( MemberIdentifier "=" Value )+
                ( MethodDefinition )*

where

    * Value must be TorchScript literals of type int, float, or str, and must be of the same TorchScript type
    * TSEnumType is the name of a TorchScript enum type. Similar to Python enum, TorchScript allows restricted Enum subclassing, that is, subclassing an enum is allowed only if the enum does not define any members.

>     * MethodDefinition must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript’s type checking rules

Reviewer: Enums can not have any methods, they are ignored by TorchScript.

Author: Done

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

>     * TorchScript supports only enum.Enum, but not other variations such as enum.IntEnum, enum.Flag, enum.IntFlag, or  enum.auto

Reviewer: Use ```` to code format class names

Author: Done

Since the type schema of module instance class is constructed directly from an instance object (created outside the scope of TorchScript), rather than inferred from __init__() like custom classes. It is possible that two objects of the same instance class type follow two different type schemas.

In this sense, TSModuleType is not really a static type. Therefore, for type safety considerations, TSModuleType cannot be used in TorchScript type annotation or be composed with TSType.

Module Instance Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TorchScript module type represents type schema of a user-defined PyTorch module instance.  When scripting a PyTorch module, the module object is always created outside TorchScript (i.e., passed in as parameter to forward()), the Python module class is treated as a module instance class so that __init__() of the Python module class are not subject to the type checking rules of TorchScript

::

    TSModuleType := "class" Identifier "(torch.nn.Module)" ":"
                        ClassBodyDefinition

where

>     * forward() or other methods decorated with @torch.jit.export must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript’s type checking rules

Reviewer: s/or other methods/and other methods/

Author: Done

Unlike custom classes, only the forward method and other methods decorated with @torch.jit.export  of the module type need to be compilable to TorchScript IR. Most notably, __init__() is not considered a TorchScript method. Thus module type constructors should not be invoked within the scope of TorchScript. Instead, TorchScript module objects are always constructed outside and passed into torch.jit.script(ModuleObj).

Example:

.. testcode::

    import torch
    class TestModule(torch.nn.Module):
        def __init__(self, v):
            super().__init__()
            self.x = v

        def mul(self, x: int):
            return self.x * x

        @torch.jit.export
        def madd(self, x: int, y: int):
            return self.mul(x) + y

        def forward(self, x: int):
            return self.x + x

    m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(2))
    print(m.madd(2, 3))

    m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(2.0))
    print(m.madd(2, 3))

.. testoutput::

    7
    7.0

This example illustrates a few features of module types:

>     *  The TestModule instance is created outside the scope of TorchScript (i.e., before invoking torch.jit.script).

Reviewer: Many class names and API names need to be code-formatted throughout this doc, like `torch.jit.script` and `forward()` in following paragraphs.

Author: Agreed, fixed now.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

.. testsetup::

    # These are hidden from the docs, but these are necessary for `doctest`
    # since the `inspect` module doesn't play nicely with the execution
    # environment for `doctest`
    import torch

    original_script = torch.jit.script
    def script_wrapper(obj, *args, **kwargs):
        obj.__module__ = 'FakeMod'
        return original_script(obj, *args, **kwargs)
    torch.jit.script = script_wrapper

    original_trace = torch.jit.trace
    def trace_wrapper(obj, *args, **kwargs):
        obj.__module__ = 'FakeMod'
        return original_trace(obj, *args, **kwargs)
    torch.jit.trace = trace_wrapper

.. _type_system:

Type System (I): TorchScript Types
==================================

> This section summarizes TorchScript type system. The information is based on TorchScript language reference

Reviewer 2: Please remove the "The information is based on TorchScript language reference and reading the implementation" part.

and reading the implementation.

> Terminology

Reviewer 2: Since these terminologies are used throughout the language specification, maybe better to move them into a separate section in the beginning.

^^^^^^^^^^^

This document uses the following terminologies:

::

    " " represents real keywords and delimiters that are part of the syntax
    A | B indicates either A or B
    ( ) indicates grouping
    [ ] indicates optional
    A+ indicates a regular expression where term A is repeated at least once
    A* indicates a regular expression where term A is repeated zero or more times

TorchScript Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The TorchScript type system consists of ``TSType`` and ``TSModuleType`` as defined below.

::

>     TSAllType := TSType | TSModuleType

Reviewer 2: Meghan's merged PR uses `::=` syntax. Let's use the same syntax for the entire spec and update `:=` to `::=`.

    * ``Any`` is the Python class name from the typing module, therefore usage of the ``Any`` type requires from typing import Any
    * Since Any can represent any data, operators allowed on Any is quite limited

Operators supported for Any type
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

* assignment to data of Any type
* binding to parameter or return of Any type
* x is, x is not  where x is of Any type
* isinstance(x, Type) where x is of Any type
* data of Any type is printable
* Data of List[Any] type may be sortable if the data is a list of values of the same type T and that T supports comparison operators

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

``Any`` is the least constrained type in the TorchScript type system. In that sense, it is quite similar to
Object class in Python. However, ``Any`` only supports a subset of the operators and methods that are supported by Object.

Design notes
""""""""""""

When we script a PyTorch module, we may encounter data that are not involved in the execution of the script, nevertheless has to be described
by a type schema. It is not only cumbersome to describe static types for unused data (in the context of the script) but also may lead to unnecessary

> scripting failures. Any is introduced to describe the type of the data where precise static types are not necessary for compilation.

Reviewer 2: Any => 'Any'

Example:

This example illustrates how ``Any`` can be used to allow the second element of the tuple parameter to be of any type. This is possible,
because ``x[1]`` is not involved in any computation that requires knowing its precise type.

.. testcode::

    import torch

    from typing import Tuple
    from typing import Any

    @torch.jit.export
    def incFirstElement(x: Tuple[int, Any]):
    return (x[0]+1, x[1])

    m = torch.jit.script(incFirstElement)

>     print(incFirstElement((1,2.0)))

Reviewer 2: `incFirstElement` => `m` (same change for the next line as well)

    ones = torch.ones([2])
    m = torch.jit.script(f)
    print(m(ones))

The above example produces the following output

.. testoutput::

    1
    1
    [ CPUFloatType{2} ]
    True

Primitive Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Primitive TorchScript types represent types that represent a single type of value and go with a single pre-defined
type name.

::

    TSPrimitiveType := "int" | "float" | "double" | "complex" | "bool" | "str" | "None"

Structural Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Structural types are types that are structurally defined without a user-defined name (unlike nominal types),
such as ``Future[int]``. Structural types are composable with any ``TSType``.

::

    TSStructualType :=  TSTuple | TSNamedTuple | TSList | TSDict |
                        TSOptional | TSFuture | TSRRef

    TSTuple := "Tuple" "[" (TSType ",")* TSType "]"
    TSNamedTuple := "namedtuple" "(" (TSType ",")* TSType ")"
    TSList := "List" "[" TSType "]"
    TSOptional := "Optional" "[" TSType "]"
    TSFuture := "Future" "[" TSType "]"
    TSRRef := "RRef" "[" TSType "]"
    TSDict := "Dict" "[" KeyType "," TSType "]"
    KeyType := "str" | "int" | "float" | "bool" | TensorType | "Any"

where

> * ``Tuple``, ``List``, ``Optional``, ``Union``, ``Future``, ``Dict`` represent Python type class names defined in module typing. Therefore before using these type names, one must import them from ``typing (e.g., from typing import Tuple)``.

Reviewer 2: in module typing => in module 'typing'

* namedtuple represents Python class  ``collections.namedtuple`` or ``typing.NamedTuple`` .
* ``Future`` and ``RRef`` represent Python classes  ``torch.futures``, ``torch.distributed.rpc``.

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

> * Apart from only composable with TorchScript types, these TorchScript structural types often support a common subset of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Apart from being composable with TorchScript types, these TorchScript structural types often support a common subset of
```

    def inc(x: _AnnotatedNamedTuple) -> Tuple[int, int]:
        return (x.first+1, x.second+1)

    m = torch.jit.script(inc)
    print(inc(_UnannotatedNamedTuple(1,2)))

Example:

This example illustrates a common mistake of annotating structural types, i.e., not importing the composite type
classes from the ``typing`` module.

.. testcode::

    import torch

    # ERROR: Tuple not recognized because not imported from typing
    @torch.jit.export
    def inc(x: Tuple[int, int]):
    return (x[0]+1, x[1]+1)

    m = torch.jit.script(inc)
    print(inc((1,2)))

Running the above codes yields the following scripting error. The remedy is to add from ``typing import Tuple``.

.. testoutput::

    File "test-tuple.py", line 5, in <module>
        def inc(x: Tuple[int, int]):
    NameError: name 'Tuple' is not defined

Nominal Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Nominal TorchScript types are Python classes. They are called nominal because these types are declared with a custom
name and are compared using class names. Nominal classes are further classified into the following categories:

::

    TSNominalType := TSBuiltinClasses | TSCustomClass | TSEnum

> Among them, ``TSCustomClass`` and ``TSEnum`` must be compilable to TorchScript IR (as enforced by the type-checker).

Author: @penguinwu , can you provide clarifications here?

    TSTensor := "torch.Tensor" | "common.SubTensor" | "common.SubWithTorchFunction" |
                "torch.nn.parameter.Parameter" | and subclasses of torch.Tensor

Special note on torch.nn.ModuleList and torch.nn.ModuleDict
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Although torch.nn.ModuleList and torch.nn.ModuleDict are defined as a list and dictionary in Python,
in TorchScript, ``torch.nn.ModuleList`` and ``torch.nn.ModuleDict`` behave more like a tuple.

* Within the execution of TorchScript, instances of ``torch.nn.ModuleList``  or ``torch.nn.ModuleDict`` are immutable.
* Iterating over ``torch.nn.ModuleList`` or ``torch.nn.ModuleDict`` is completely unrolled so that elements of ``torch.nn.ModuleList`` or keys of ``torch.nn.ModuleDict`` can be of different subclasses of ``torch.nn.Module``.

Example:

.. testcode::

    import torch

    @torch.jit.script
    class A():
        def __init__(self):
            self.x = torch.rand(3)

        def f(self, y: torch.device):
            return self.x.to(device=y)

    def g():
        a = A()
        return a.f(torch.device("cpu"))

    script_g = torch.jit.script(g)

>     print(script_g.graph)

Reviewer 3: While this code sample demonstrates the use of the `torch.device` builtin class, it does not show how to use `ModuleList` or `ModuleDict` (the section right before this sample). We should add some clarifying comments and probably also one or more code samples showing how `ModuleList/Dict` can and cannot be used.

Custom Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Unlike built-in classes, semantics of custom classes are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable into TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unlike built-in classes, semantics of custom classes are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.
```

::

    TSClassDef := [ "@torch.jit.script" ]
                "class" ClassName [ "(object)" ]  ":"
                        MethodDefinition |
                    [ "@torch.jit.ignore" ] | [ "@torch.jit.unused" ]
                        MethodDefinition

where

* Classes must be new-style classes (note that Python 3 supports only new-style classes, for Python 2.x new-style class is specified by subclassing from object)
* Instance data attributes are statically typed, and instance attributes must be declared by assignments inside the ``__init__()`` method
* Method overloading is not supported (i.e., cannot have multiple methods with the same method name)

> * MethodDefinition must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript’s type-checking rules, i.e., all methods must be valid TorchScript functions and class attribute definitions are valid TorchScript statements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``MethodDefinition`` must be compilable and obey TorchScript’s type-checking rules (e.g. all methods must be valid TorchScript functions and class attribute definitions must be valid TorchScript statements)
```

> * ``torch.jit.ignore`` and ``torch.jit.unused`` can be used to ignore the method or function that is not fully torchscriptable or just needs to be ignored by the compiler

Reviewer 2: Add links to more detailed specification for torch.jit.ignore/unused.

> * ``torch.jit.ignore`` and ``torch.jit.unused`` can be used to ignore the method or function that is not fully torchscriptable or just needs to be ignored by the compiler

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``torch.jit.ignore`` and ``torch.jit.unused`` can be used to ignore a method or function that is not fully torchscriptable or should be ignored by the compiler
```

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

> TorchScript custom class is quite limited compared to its Python counterpart. Most notably, TorchScript custom classes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TorchScript custom classes are quite limited compared to their Python counterparts. Most notably, TorchScript custom classes
```

* do not support class attributes
* do not support subclassing except for subclassing an interface type or object
* do not support method overloading

> * must initialize all its instance attributes in  ``__init__()``; this is because TorchScript construct a static schema of the class by inferring attribute types in ``__init__()``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* must initialize all its instance attributes in  ``__init__()``; this is because TorchScript constructs a static schema of the class by inferring attribute types in ``__init__()``
```

* must contain only methods that satisfy TorchScript type-checking rules and are compilable to TorchScript IRs

Example:

> Python classes can be used in TorchScript if they are annotated with ``@torch.jit.script``, similar to how you would declare a TorchScript function:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Python classes can be used in TorchScript if they are annotated with ``@torch.jit.script``, similar to how a TorchScript function would be declared:
```

    @torch.jit.script
    class foo:
        def __init__(self):
            self.y = 1

        # ERROR: self.x is not defined in __init__
        def assign_x(self):
            self.x = torch.rand(2, 3)

 The above class will fail to be compiled and issue the following error:

.. testoutput::

    RuntimeError:
    Tried to set nonexistent attribute: x. Did you forget to initialize it in __init__()?:
    def assign_x(self):
        self.x = torch.rand(2, 3)
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <--- HERE

Example:

In this example, a TorchScript custom class defines a class variable name, which is not allowed.

.. testcode::

    import torch

    @torch.jit.script
    class MyClass(object):
        name = "MyClass"
        def __init__(self, x: int):
            self.x = x

    def fn(a: MyClass):
        return a.name

It leads to the following compile-time error:

.. testoutput::

    RuntimeError:
    Tried to access nonexistent attribute or method 'name' of type '__torch__.MyClass'. Did you forget to initialize an attribute in __init__()?:
        File "test-class2.py", line 10
    def fn(a: MyClass):
        return a.name
            ~~~~~~ <--- HERE

Enum Type
^^^^^^^^^^

> Like custom classes, semantics of enum type are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like custom classes, semantics of enum type are user-defined and the entire class definition must be compilable and subject to TorchScript type-checking rules.
```

::

    TSEnumDef := "class" Identifier "(enum.Enum | TSEnumType)" ":"
                ( MemberIdentifier "=" Value )+
                ( MethodDefinition )*

where

> * Value must be TorchScript literals of type ``int``, ``float``, or ``str``, and must be of the same TorchScript type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Value must be a TorchScript literal of type ``int``, ``float``, or ``str``, and must be of the same TorchScript type
```

> * ``TSEnumType`` is the name of a TorchScript ``enum`` type. Similar to Python enum, TorchScript allows restricted Enum subclassing, that is, subclassing an enum is allowed only if the enum does not define any members.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``TSEnumType`` is the name of a TorchScript enumerated type. Similar to Python enum, TorchScript allows restricted ``Enum`` subclassing, that is, subclassing an enumerated is allowed only if it does not define any members.
```
Also, what is the motivation for subclassing enums, especially one that does not define any members?

Compared to Python
""""""""""""""""""

* TorchScript supports only ``enum.Enum``, but not other variations such as ``enum.IntEnum``, ``enum.Flag``, ``enum.IntFlag``, or  ``enum.auto``
* Values of TorchScript enum members must be of the same type and can only be of ``int``, ``float``, or ``str`` type, whereas Python enum members can be of any type

> * Enums containing methods, are ignored in TorchScript.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enums containing methods are ignored in TorchScript.
```

Example:

.. testcode::

    import torch
    from enum import Enum

    class Color(Enum):
        RED = 1
        GREEN = 2

    def enum_fn(x: Color, y: Color) -> bool:
        if x == Color.RED:
            return True
        return x == y

    m = torch.jit.script(enum_fn)

    print("Eager: ", enum_fn(Color.RED, Color.GREEN))
    print("TorchScript: ", m(Color.RED, Color.GREEN))

Example:

> The following example shows the case of restricted enum subclassing, where BaseColor does not define any member, thus can be subclassed by Color.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows the case of restricted enum subclassing, where ``BaseColor`` does not define any member, thus can be subclassed by ``Color``.
```

.. testcode::

    import torch
    from enum import Enum

    class BaseColor(Enum):
        def foo(self):
            pass

    class Color(BaseColor):
        RED = 1
        GREEN = 2

    def enum_fn(x: Color, y: Color) -> bool:
        if x == Color.RED:
            return True

        return x == y

    m = torch.jit.script(enum_fn)
    print("TorchScript: ", m(Color.RED, Color.GREEN))
    print("Eager: ", enum_fn(Color.RED, Color.GREEN))

TorchScript Module Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> ``TSModuleType`` is a special class type that is inferred from object instances created outside TorchScript. Although ``TSModuleType`` is named by the Python class of the object instance. Method ``__init__()`` of the Python class are not considered as a TorchScript method, thus it does not have to comply to TorchScript’s type checking rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``TSModuleType`` is a special class type that is inferred from object instances created outside TorchScript. Although ``TSModuleType`` is named by the Python class of the object instance. The ``__init__()`` method of the Python class is not considered as a TorchScript method, so it does not have to comply with TorchScript’s type checking rules.
```
"Although ``TSModuleType`` is named by the Python class of the object instance" is also an incomplete sentence.

> Since the type schema of module instance class is constructed directly from an instance object (created outside the scope of TorchScript), rather than inferred from ``__init__()`` like custom classes. It is possible that two objects of the same instance class type follow two different type schemas.

Reviewer 3: What is type schema? Should it be defined in the terminology section?

> In this sense, ``TSModuleType`` is not really a static type. Therefore, for type safety considerations, ``TSModuleType`` cannot be used in TorchScript type annotation or be composed with ``TSType``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this sense, ``TSModuleType`` is not really a static type. Therefore, for type safety considerations, ``TSModuleType`` cannot be used in a TorchScript type annotation or be composed with ``TSType``.
```

Module Instance Class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> TorchScript module type represents type schema of a user-defined PyTorch module instance.  When scripting a PyTorch module, the module object is always created outside TorchScript (i.e., passed in as parameter to forward()), the Python module class is treated as a module instance class so that ``__init__()`` of the Python module class are not subject to the type checking rules of TorchScript

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TorchScript module type represents type schema of a user-defined PyTorch module instance.  When scripting a PyTorch module, the module object is always created outside TorchScript (i.e., passed in as parameter to ``forward``), The Python module class is treated as a module instance class, so the ``__init__()`` method of the Python module class is not subject to the type checking rules of TorchScript.
```

::

    TSModuleType := "class" Identifier "(torch.nn.Module)" ":"
                        ClassBodyDefinition

where

* ``forward()`` and other methods decorated with ``@torch.jit.export`` must be compilable to TorchScript IR and subject to TorchScript’s type checking rules

> Unlike custom classes, only the forward method and other methods decorated with ``@torch.jit.export``  of the module type need to be compilable to TorchScript IR. Most notably, ``__init__()`` is not considered a TorchScript method. Thus module type constructors should not be invoked within the scope of TorchScript. Instead, TorchScript module objects are always constructed outside and passed into ``torch.jit.script(ModuleObj)``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unlike custom classes, only the forward method and other methods decorated with ``@torch.jit.export``  of the module type need to be compilable. Most notably, ``__init__()`` is not considered a TorchScript method. Consequently, module type constructors cannot be invoked within the scope of TorchScript. Instead, TorchScript module objects are always constructed outside and passed into ``torch.jit.script(ModuleObj)``.
```

Example:

.. testcode::

    import torch

>     class TestModule(torch.nn.Module):

Reviewer 2: I found this example (of mine :) unnecessarily complex to explain the ModuleInstanceClass. How about using this simplified example instead?

```
mport torch
  
class TestModule(torch.nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, v):
        super().__init__()
        self.x = v

    def forward(self, inc: int):
        return self.x + inc

m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(1))
print(f"First instance: {m(3)}")

m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(torch.ones([5])))
print(f"Second instance: {m(3)}")
```
And the outputs are 
```
First instance: 4
Second instance: tensor([4., 4., 4., 4., 4.])
```

        def __init__(self, v):
            super().__init__()
            self.x = v

        def mul(self, x: int):
            return self.x * x

        @torch.jit.export
        def madd(self, x: int, y: int):
            return self.mul(x) + y

        def forward(self, x: int):
            return self.x + x

    m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(2))
    print(m.madd(2, 3))

    m = torch.jit.script(TestModule(2.0))
    print(m.madd(2, 3))

.. testoutput::

    7
    7.0

This example illustrates a few features of module types:

> *  The TestModule instance is created outside the scope of TorchScript (i.e., before invoking torch.jit.script).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*  The ``TestModule`` instance is created outside the scope of TorchScript (i.e., before invoking ``torch.jit.script``).
```

> * ``__init__()`` is not considered as a TorchScript method, therefore it does not have to be annotated and can contain arbitrary Python codes. In fact, it is prohibited to invoke ``__init__()`` of a instance class within the scope of TorchScript execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``__init__()`` is not considered to be a TorchScript method, therefore it does not have to be annotated and can contain arbitrary Python code. In addition, the ``__init__()`` method of an instance class cannot be invoked in TorchScript code.
```

> * Because TestModule instances are instantiated in Python, in this example, TestModule(2.0) and TestModule(2) create two instances with different types for its data attributes, i.e., (self.x is of type float for TestModule(2.0), whereas self.y is of type int for TestModule(2.0)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Because ``TestModule`` instances are instantiated in Python, in this example, ``TestModule(2.0)`` and ``TestModule(2)`` create two instances with different types for its data attributes. ``self.x is of type ``float`` for ``TestModule(2.0)``, whereas ``self.y`` is of type ``int`` for ``TestModule(2.0)``.
```

  In this sense, module instance type provides a mechanism to specialize a class definition to different types based on how the instance is instantiated.

> * TorchScript automatically compiles other methods (e.g., mul()) invoked by methods annotated via ``@torch.jit.export`` or ``forward()`` methods

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TorchScript automatically compiles other methods (e.g., ``mul()``) invoked by methods annotated via ``@torch.jit.export`` or ``forward()`` methods
```

> * Entry-points to a TorchScript program are either ``forward()`` of a module type or methods annotated via ``torch.jit.script``

Reviewer 2: "methods annotated via ``torch.jit.script``" ==> functions annotated as ``torch.jit.script``, or methods annotated as ``torch.jit.export``

Example:

> The following shows an incorrect usage of module type. Specifically, this example invokes the constructor of TestModule inside the scope of TorchScript.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following shows an incorrect usage of module type. Specifically, this example invokes the constructor of ``TestModule`` inside the scope of TorchScript.
```

            self.x = v

        def forward(self, x: int):
            return self.x + x

    class MyModel:
        def __init__(self, v: int):
            self.val = v

        @torch.jit.export
        def doSomething(self, val: int) -> int:
            # error: should not invoke the constructor of module type
            myModel = TestModule(self.val)
            return myModel(val)

    m = torch.jit.script(MyModel(2))
    print(m.doSomething(3))

.. testoutput::

    RuntimeError: Could not get name of python class object

Appendix: TorchScript Type System Definition
============================================

::

    TSAllType := TSType | TSModuleType
    TSType := TSMetaType | TSPrimitiveType | TSStructuralType | TSNominalType

    TSMetaType := "Any"
    TSPrimitiveType := "int" | "float" | "double" | "complex" | "bool" | "str" | "None"

    TSStructualType :=  TSTuple | TSNamedTuple | TSList | TSDict |
                        TSOptional | TSFuture | TSRRef
    TSTuple := "Tuple" "[" (TSType ",")* TSType "]"
    TSNamedTuple := "namedtuple" "(" (TSType ",")* TSType ")"
    TSList := "List" "[" TSType "]"
    TSOptional := "Optional" "[" TSType "]"

>     TSUnion := "Union" "[" (TSType ",")* TSType "]"

Reviewer 2: TSUnion should be removed
